[KIP-113] BLS public key registry (#115)
klaytn/kips: KIPs/kip-113.md

        bytes pop;
    }

    event PubkeyRegistered(address cnNodeId, bytes publicKey, bytes pop);
    event PubkeyUnegistered(address cnNodeId, bytes publicKey, bytes pop);

    function registerPublicKey(bytes memory publicKey, bytes memory pop) external;
    function unregisterPublicKey(address cnNodeId) external;

    function getInfo(address cnNodeId) external view returns (BlsPublicKeyInfo pubkey);
    function getAllInfo() external view returns (address[] memory nodeIdList, BlsPublicKeyInfo[] memory pubkeyList);
}
```

### Definitions

- Public key: BLS12-381 key under [minimal-pubkey-size](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-05.html#section-2.1-2.2.2) configuration (48 bytes)
- Proof-of-possession (pop): the signature of the hash of the public key (96 bytes)

### Smart Contracts Overview

The proposed smart contract will be implemented in Solidity and will be compatible with the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).

The smart contract will have the following features:

- Register a public key and a proof-of-possession
- Unregister a public key
- View the registered public keys

#### Methods

> ##### registerPublicKey

Reviewer: If it is not too complicated, what about adding description in the solidity code as a comment?

Author: added in 3033819

Registers the given public key associated with the `msg.sender` address.

The function validates the following requirements:

- The function MUST revert if `publicKey.length != 48` or `pop.length != 96`
- The function MUST revert if `publicKey` or `pop` is equal to zero

> - The function SHOULD authenticate and authorize `msg.sender`

Reviewer: Can you more elaborate what kinds of authentication and authorization will be done in this function?

Author: It's chain-specific so I wrote it in the below "cypress-specific implementation" section. It's not mandatory so service chain operators can decide to not perform authentication/authorization.

Reviewer: Yeah, but it is not easy to be linked the things. What about adding some more descriptions like:

```suggestion
- The function SHOULD authenticate and authorize `msg.sender`. The implementation can be different from chain to chain. For Cypress (Klaytn's mainnet), please refer to the section `Cypress-specific implementation`.
```

Author: Added in 3f5f882

- The function MUST revert if `cnNodeId` has not been registered
- The function SHOULD authenticate and authorize `msg.sender`

The function emits a `PubkeyUnregistered` event.

```solidity
function unregisterPublicKey(address cnNodeId)
```

##### getInfo

Returns the public key and proof-of-possession given a `cnNodeId`.

The function MUST revert if given `cnNodeId` is not registered.

_Note_ The function is not able to verify the validity of the public key and the proof-of-possession due to the lack of [EIP-2537](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2537). See [validation](#validation) for off-chain validation.

```solidity
function getInfo(address cnNodeId) external view returns (BlsPublicKeyInfo pubkey)
```

##### getAllInfo

Returns all the stored node IDs, public keys, and proof-of-possessions at once.

_Note_ The function is not able to verify the validity of the public key and the proof-of-possession due to the lack of [EIP-2537](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2537). See [validation](#validation) for off-chain validation.

```solidity
function getAllInfo() external view returns (address[] nodeId, BlsPublicKeyInfo[])
```

### Core Logic Overview

> A Klaytn node must specify the target block number; starting from the target block number, the node shall read the contract and use its data. Before the target block number, the contract should be ready to use, meaning that deploying Registry contract and registering the public keys should be done.

Reviewer: If we say that "a Klaytn node specify the target block number", this "target block number" is a configurable parameter per node? It seems like we need to define this value as a chain configuration, not a node configuration.

Author: No, "the target block number" indicates a predefined block number. I think it would have been "a target block number" if it was node-specific. BTW, [KIP-103](https://github.com/klaytn/kips/blob/main/KIPs/kip-103.md) also mentioned it like this.

Reviewer: @ian0371 Then, what about replacing "a Klaytn node" with "a Klaytn chain"?
Or, we can also rephrase the sentence like:

The target block number must be specified per chain using chainConfig;

Author: fixed in 1b90a54

#### Chain Configuration

In the ChainConfig, the following fields are introduced. All node operators in a network must update `genesis.json` configuration with the same value. The configuration values for Baobab and Cypress networks are hard-coded on the client source code.

> - kip113CompatibleBlock: the block number which Klaytn node starts using Registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- kip113CompatibleBlock: the block number which a Klaytn node starts using Registry
```

Author: fixed in 4fed377

> - kip113ContractAddress: the address of Registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- kip113ContractAddress: the address of a contract that implements IKIP_113.
```

Author: should i also update "Registry" in `kip113CompatibleBlock`?

Reviewer: @ian0371 It would be also good if you agree with the change.

Author: let's leave it for brevity

#### Validation

After reading from Registry, the node must perform the following validations:

- [KeyValidate](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-05.html#section-2.5)
- [PopVerify](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-05.html#section-3.3.3)

## Rationale

### Design decisions

#### Registry is not upgradeable

Registry should not be implemented via upgradeable proxy contract due to its impact on the ecosystem:

- Upgrade can be done covertly by the contract owner
- Upgrade can happen at an arbitrary block
- Upgrade key can be stolen

#### Propagating the Registry address via chainConfig

There are several methods to propagate the a system contract address to the network:

1. headerGov: deploy the contract from EOA, and make a governance vote from the governing node (the method used for Baobab GovParam address)
2. contractGov: deploy the contract from EOA, and make an on-chain governance vote
3. spareContract: deploy the contract from EOA, and set the address to `AddressBook.spareContract`

> 4. chainConfig: deploy the contract from EOA, and set the address to chainConfig (the method used for TreasuryRebalance, a.k.a. KIP-103)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. chainConfig: deploy the contract from EOA, and set the address to chainConfig (the method used for TreasuryRebalance, a.k.a. [KIP-103](https://kips.klaytn.foundation/KIPs/kip-103))
```

Author: fixed in 4fed377

6. bytecode injection: inject a bytecode to a predefined address at hardfork

We can view each method from the following point of view:

##### How to update the address

| Methods                                               | [1] headerGov | [2] contractGov                        | [3] spareContract | [4] chainConfig | [5] precompiled contract | [6] bytecode injection |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| Address change without hardfork                       | O             | O                                      | O                 | X               | X                        | X                      |
| Managing address change timing                        | O             | O                                      | X                 | -               | -                        | -                      |
| Awareness of other contracts after address is updated | X             | △<br> Latest GovParam address required | O                 | -               | -                        | -                      |

> 

Reviewer: It seems like we decided to use chainConfig. Can you explain why? When I see this table, chainConfig is not the best option.

Author: Updated the table and added rationale in 5282741. PTAL

---
kip: 113
title: BLS public key registry

> author: Ian (@ian0371), Ollie (@blukat29), Joseph(@jiseongnoh), Aidan(@aidan-kwon)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Ian (@ian0371), Ollie (@blukat29), Joseph (@jiseongnoh), and Aidan (@aidan-kwon)
```

discussions-to: https://github.com/klaytn/kips/issues/113
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2023-05-22
---

## Simple Summary

A design of simple BLS12-381 registry.

## Abstract

> This standard defines an interface for BLS12-381 registry, which enables nodes or smart contracts to access and view all the public keys of GCs. This is not to replace AddressBook, but rather to supplement it in order to facilitate the use of BLS in various components, including signature-based random (KIP-114).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard defines an interface for BLS12-381 registry, which enables nodes or smart contracts to access and view all the public keys of GC members. This is not to replace AddressBook, but rather to supplement it in order to facilitate the use of BLS in various components, including signature-based random (KIP-114).
```

GC is the most appropriate term that we can use? Is there any reason that we can also store non-GC member's public key?

Author: We can use validators, or consensus nodes instead of GC.
There's no reason to store non-GC member key; KIP-113 registry only allows CN nodes registered in AddressBook to register their public key.

Reviewer: Then, please use the term GC members rather than GCs. Thanks~

Author: This section is removed because it no longer defines how the registry as in system contract will be deployed, and thus not limited to storing public keys of GC members.

## Motivation

The current design of AddressBook cannot incorporate BLS12-381 keys. The lack of BLS registry limits the use of BLS from the node. The objective is to design a simple registry that includes essential functions, and minimal access control, thereby reducing any potential security risks.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

Registry contract must implement the IKIP_113 interface:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.19;

/// @title KIP-113 BLS public key registry
/// @dev See https://github.com/klaytn/kips/issues/113

> interface IKIP_113 {

Reviewer: Comparing to other implementations, IKIP113 is more commonly used until now rather than IKIP_113.

```suggestion
interface IKIP113 {
```

https://github.com/klaytn/klaytn-contracts/blob/master/contracts/KIP/interfaces/IKIP13.sol

The `FORK_BLOCK` and `KIP113_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` must be specified per chain in ChainConfig; starting from `FORK_BLOCK`, the node shall read the contract that supports IKIP113 at the address `KIP113_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`. Before `FORK_BLOCK`, the contract should be ready to use, meaning that deploying Registry contract and registering the public keys should be done.

#### Validation

After reading from Registry, the node must perform the following validations:

- [KeyValidate](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-05.html#section-2.5)
- [PopVerify](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature-05.html#section-3.3.3)

## Rationale

### Design decisions

#### Registry is not upgradeable

The upgradeable proxy pattern allows the functionality of contracts to be upgraded without changing their addresses.
However, Registry should not be implemented via upgradeable proxy contract due to its impact on the ecosystem:

- Upgrade can be done covertly by the contract owner.
- Upgrade can happen at an arbitrary block.
- Upgrade key can be stolen.

In other words, should Registry be upgraded, Registry must be redeployed to have a different address.

> #### Propagating the Registry address via ChainConfig

Reviewer 2: I think it is time to consider a general way to introduce a system contract. I will prepare an initial discussion material for this topic and share it with core developers in another channel. 
If we conclude on a specific way for system contract introduction, then this chapter doesn't need to be included in this spec. If not, let's proceed with your suggestion.

Reviewer 2: I think it can take a few weeks. If the discussion takes long, merge this PR and then I will make another PR for the change

Author: I agree with having a standardized way for system contracts (i.e., in another KIP).
Later, we can remove this section and make readers refer to the new KIP.

> In other words, should Registry be upgraded, Registry must be redeployed to have a different address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, if Registry should be upgraded, Registry must be redeployed to have a different address.
```

Author: This section is removed because it no longer defines how the registry as in system contract will be deployed. Any developers can deploy them in an upgradeable way.

2. ContractGov: deploy the contract from EOA, and make an on-chain governance vote.
3. SpareContract: deploy the contract from EOA, and set the address to `AddressBook.spareContract`.
4. ChainConfig: deploy the contract from EOA, and set the address to ChainConfig (the method used for TreasuryRebalance, a.k.a. [KIP-103](https://kips.klaytn.foundation/KIPs/kip-103)).
5. Precompiled-contract: deploy the contract from EOA, and introduce a new Precompiled contract that returns its address.
6. Bytecode-injection: inject a bytecode to a predefined address at hardfork.

We can view each method from the following point of view:

##### Explicit contract logic upgrade

| Methods                                                | [1] HeaderGov | [2] ContractGov                        | [3] SpareContract | [4] ChainConfig | [5] Precompiled-contract | [6] Bytecode-injection |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------- |

> | Upgrade with hardfork                                  | X             | X                                      | X                 | O               | O                        | O                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Hardfork required when upgrade                                  | X             | X                                      | X                 | O               | O                        | O                      |
```

Reviewer: @ian0371 I am not sure the meaning is what you intended, but the previous term is also misleading. Let me know the rephrased term is right or not.

Author: yep that's correct

> | Managing address change timing                         | O             | O                                      | X                 | O               | O                        | O                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Possible to set the target block number for address change                     | O             | O                                      | X                 | O               | O                        | O                      |
```

> | Awareness of subscriber contracts after address update     | X             | △<br> Latest GovParam address required | O                 | X               | O                        | X                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Possible to find the updated addresses from the subscriber contracts     | X             | △<br> Latest GovParam address required | O                 | X               | O                        | X                      |
```

Author: fixed in fbd69de

> | Awareness of subscriber contracts after address update | X             | △<br> Latest GovParam address required | O                 | X               | O                        | X                      |

Reviewer: Awareness of subscriber contracts after address update
-> This means that the subscriber contracts will notify after the address update?

Author: The question is: will the subscriber contracts be able to use the latest contract address?
e.g., for [3] spare contract, subscriber contracts can use `address registry = IAddressBook(0x400).spareContract()`

Reviewer: I suggested the phrase in another comment.

> In terms of explicit contract logic upgrade, ChainConfig, Precompiled-contract, and Bytecode-injection are recommended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In terms of explicit contract logic upgrade, ChainConfig, Precompiled-contract, and Bytecode-injection are recommended.
```

> ##### Usability from service-chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Usability from ServiceChain
```

Reviewer: Previously we decided to use the therm `ServiceChain`.

| Methods                      | [1] HeaderGov  | [2] ContractGov           | [3] SpareContract              | [4] ChainConfig | [5] Precompiled-contract          | [6] Bytecode-injection |
| ---------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Binary modification required | O              | O                         | X<br>Patch AddressBook address | O               | X<br> Patch the hardcoded address | O                      |
| Contract deployment required | X<br> Registry | X <br> Registry, GovParam | X <br> Registry, AddressBook   | X<br> Registry  | X<br> Registry                    | X<br> AddressBook      |

> In terms of usability from service-chain, HeaderGov, ContractGov, ChainConfig, and Bytecode-injection are recommended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In terms of usability from ServiceChain, HeaderGov, ContractGov, ChainConfig, and Bytecode-injection are recommended.
```

##### Others

| Methods                                            | [1] HeaderGov                 | [2] ContractGov               | [3] SpareContract             | [4] ChainConfig      | [5] Precompiled-contract | [6] Bytecode-injection |
| -------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------- |

> | Immediate panic at hardfork from out-of-date nodes | △<br> At GovernanceData block | X<br> At the activation block | △<br> At SpareContract update | O                    | O                        | O                      |

Reviewer: hmm immediate panic is a good thing?

Author: I think the sooner you find out you didn't upgrade the node, the better. If it panics later, there can be situations where you have to rollback to the hardfork (e.g., incompatible DB).

Reviewer: I got your point, but it would be good to rephrase it.
```suggestion
| Possible to alert immediately for out-of-date nodes | △<br> At GovernanceData block | X<br> At the activation block | △<br> At SpareContract update | O                    | O                        | O                      |
```

Author: you mean `immediately at hardfork` right?

Author: do you mean alert as in notify/warn?

Author: I think "alerting out-of-date nodes" is ambiguous; who alerts to whom and how?

Reviewer: okay then, can you suggest something else? 

1. I want the statement to be more yes/no question.
2. what to emphasize is that whether we have a method to force them update the node. Otherwise, the node will not work. 

So, my another suggestion would be

"Possible to panic the node if out-dated"

Author: Initially the answers were
- O if panics at hardfork block,
- △ if panics later at a predictable block,
- X if panics at undetermined block.

If the question is "Possible to panic outdated nodes", they they're all yes. (they will panic some day)
So I'll (1) change the question to "Possible to panic outdated nodes at hardfork" and (2) change answers from △ to X. (see fbd69de)

Reviewer: Sorry for the late reply. So, in this case, you think panicing at the hard fork block is the best one, dont't you?

Author: yes, i do think.

I removed this section, and we can further discuss in the upcoming KIP.

> | Registry initial data setup before hardfork        | O                             | O                             | O                             | O                    | O                        | X                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Possible to setup initial data before hardfork        | O                             | O                             | O                             | O                    | O                        | X                      |
```

> | Special address (like 0x0…400)                     | X<br> vanity address          | X<br> vanity address          | X<br> vanity address          | X<br> vanity address | O                        | O                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Possible to use a special address (like 0x0…400)                     | X<br> vanity address          | X<br> vanity address          | X<br> vanity address          | X<br> vanity address | O                        | O                      |
```

> In terms of usability from ChainConfig, Precompiled-contract, and Bytecode-injection are recommended

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In terms of various remaining aspects, ChainConfig, Precompiled-contract, and Bytecode-injection are recommended.
```

Overall, we choose ChainConfig because

> - users are mainly Klaytn nodes, not contracts so the awareness of user contracts after address update is less important

Reviewer: I don't get the point of this statement. Can you explain little bit more why Klaytn nodes are main users? Klaytn nodes vs smart contracts seems little bit weird. Are you considering protocol vs smart contract?

Author: I meant users as in Registry readers. Registry is mainly read by Klaytn nodes like GovParam or KIP103. I'll clarify the term "user"

Author: let's use the term "subscriber"

Reviewer: @ian0371 What about using the term "Core protocol" instead of "Klaytn nodes"?

Author: fixed in 6853068

> - ease of use in service chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ease of use in all of ServiceChain, Baobab (testnet), Cypress (mainnet)
```

- Initial data setup before hardfork is viable.
- Special address format is less important.

## Backwards Compatibility

This does not affect the backward compatibility as this is a newly deployed contract.

## Implementation

> A reference implementation: [TODO: github link]

Reviewer: Will you merge this after this Github link is updated?

Author: I'll update the link but it's a private repo for now

### Cypress-specific implementation

Cypress has the following access controls:

> - `registerPublicKey` reverts if `msg.sender` is not a `cnNodeId` from AddressBook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `registerPublicKey` reverts if `msg.sender` is not a valid `cnNodeId` registered in AddressBook.
```

There could be some dummy cnNodeId in the address book. Is this okay?

Author: Registry can't tell if it's a dummy or not, so it won't revert.

> - `unregisterPublicKey` reverts if `msg.sender` is not an admin from AddressBook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `unregisterPublicKey` reverts if `msg.sender` is not an admin of AddressBook.
```

Author: Fixed in 86a1721 along with other bullet points

> - `unregisterPublicKey(cnNodeId)` reverts if `msg.sender` is not an admin of AddressBook, or if `cnNodeId` is in AddressBook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `unregisterPublicKey(cnNodeId)` reverts if `msg.sender` is not an admin of AddressBook, or if `cnNodeId` is not in AddressBook.
```

Author: This section is removed because a representative registry will not be deployed in Cypress as a system contract.
